This file is not kept up to date.  Some/all of these bugs may not
actually exist any more.  Consider this "notes", really.

BETA TESTER BUGS

* No sound in the main menu, can only get music to occur after accessing 
  the notes page.(not sure if intended or bug)

* Cannot get the steam overlay to work, also when steam notifications 
  pop up, they leave a trail of windows when it minimizes that only go away on alt-tabbing.
  
* In the sound options when changing volumes, the button 
  allows for one press, sometimes two, then won't go lower. In order to keep 
  changing the volume slider I have to take my cursur off the arrow and moving 
  it back on again, pressing once, removing it, then putting it back etc etc. 
  (found that as long as the mouse remains static, it cannot press more than once. 
  As long as the mouse moves slightly, you can press again)
  
* For the general music volume, it allows one press to go lower, then 
  immieditaly changes selection to the back button despite having curson 
  on the arrow key, so if you press more than once, it resumes the game. 
  Raising volume works the same was as the voice volume sliders do. 
  (was able to recreate again, but it didn't do it every time like previously)
  
* If game is in windowed mode, and you hit the maximise window button, 
  and then change the game to full screen in the options, if you alt-tab 
  and return to the game the screen turns black and while the sound still 
  runs you can't see the game unless you quit and come back in. 
  (have tested this and it occurs each time) 

MAJOR BUGS

* Problems using fullscreen mode under Compiz on Nezumi.  The symptom
  is that the game flickers into fullscreen mode and then pops
  straight back into a window.  Something to do with the Workarounds
  plugin, but I've tried disabling workarounds individually and failed
  to isolate the cause.  :(

  
MINOR BUGS

* Unmarked text is still permitted.  (It now serves no purpose, so far
  as I know.)

* Click-to-display-a-full-page doesn't work in OS X 10.4+ unless
  coalesced updates are disabled.

* FontInfo doesn't store accurate information on extremes, so
  getFullArea(), line_space() etc don't actually return the area
  filled by existing text.
  (TODO: need to check whether this still applies)

* Built-in save/load menus are broken when encoding is Shift_JIS
  (TODO: need to check whether this still applies)


HEISENBUGS

* In Narci2, enabling auto mode and then fast-forwarding may have
  caused me to end up with no text showing and nothing happening till
  I clicked.  This was at the top of the first lift, IIRC.
  (TODO: try to duplicate this.)


FEATURES

* SHY (U+00AD) support would be nice.  Also non-breaking hyphens.
