  CONTENTS

Prerequisites
Compilers
Packages
Building
OS X and fat binaries
Build options
Common problems


  PREREQUISITES

Building Ponscripter requires the following as a bare minimum:

  - A Unix-type environment with Bourne shell and standard utilities
  - GNU make
  - Suitable C and C++ compilers (see COMPILERS below)

For Microsoft Windows, this means you need MinGW and MSYS.

Building the documentation (which is optional) requires two further
tools:

  - Perl
  - xmlto

If you want to use the minimal source package, you will additionally
need development versions of the following dependencies:

  - SDL
  - SDL_image, with at least PNG, JPEG, and BMP support
  - SDL_mixer, with at least Ogg Vorbis support
  - smpeg
  - bzip2
  - Freetype

If in doubt, just use the full source package, which includes all
dependencies.


  COMPILERS

Compilation is only extensively tested with the GNU Compiler
Collection.  Some success has been achieved with compatible compilers
such as Intel's.

The Sun Workshop compilers are known NOT to work.

Microsoft's C++ compiler will not work with the Ponscripter build
system, but should theoretically be capable of building the program.
  
  
  PACKAGES

Two versions of the source code are provided.

The minimal package contains only Ponscripter code.  You must ensure
that all dependencies are met yourself.

The full package includes all dependencies, and will build any it
needs.

In general it doesn't make any difference which you have.  The bundled
libraries in the full package will be ignored if your system can meet
the dependencies, and the configure script will tell you if you have
the minimal package and dependencies are unmet.


  BUILDING

Building Ponscripter is done in the usual way:

  ./configure
  make

On Unix-like platforms you will then want to run

  make install

with suitable privileges; this will install the binary and manpages.


  OS X AND FAT BINARIES

To build a fat binary on Mac OS X, ignore the above instructions, and
instead run

  util/osx_build.sh

This will create three files (ponscr.ppc, ponscr.intel, and ponscr)
under src.  The third is your fat binary.
  

  BUILD OPTIONS

Run

  ./configure --help

for a summary of available options.

The two most likely to be useful are --prefix (if e.g. you want to
install to your home directory rather than /usr/local) and
--with-internal-libs (if you want to use only bundled libraries, not
anything your OS provides).

Reasons for using the latter include building a binary that will work
on multiple Linux distros, or working round library incompatibilities.


  COMMON PROBLEMS

  Linking Errors

The linking stage of the build sometimes fails with unresolved
symbols.

This is normally SDL's fault -- sdl-config often fails to include
libraries that SDL is actually depending on.  For example, if ESD is
installed on Ubuntu, SDL will happily link against it without
mentioning the fact.

The workaround is to run the linking step manually (copy and paste the
failing command from the error output), and add the necessary options
yourself (in the above case, simply tacking on "-lesd" is all that's
required).

  Stuttering Sound

Some platforms ship an SDL that doesn't like Ponscripter; the symptom
is nasty stuttering sound.  I have observed this on Fedora.  Using
--with-internal-libs to force the use of the bundled SDL library
solved the problem.

