CONTENTS

1. Overview
2. A dire warning
3. Compatibility (incl. platform-specific issues)
4. Acknowledgements
5. Licensing


--- OVERVIEW

Ponscripter is a fork of Ogapee's ONScripter, which in turn is an
enhanced clone of NScripter.

While ONScripter adds basic support for Western text to the NScripter
system, it does so only insofar as is easily done while retaining
compatibility with unmodified Japanese games.  ONScripter-En takes
things slightly further, but really good English support requires
fundamental changes.  Hence Ponscripter, which builds on the
ONScripter source code, but removes many Japanese-specific features
(vertical text, ruby), makes some fundamental architectural changes to
better support Western games (proportionally spaced text, scripts
encoded as UTF-8 rather than Shift_JIS), and adds some generally nice
features like support for multiple fonts and text styles in the
process.

The end result is a somewhat less stable and VASTLY less compatible
engine -- but it sure does look a lot better when it works.

I must repeat this for emphasis: unlike ONScripter-En, this engine is
NOT designed for playing NScripter or ONScripter games!  While it is
generally capable of running them to some extent, it is not fully
compatible, and problems are very likely to occur.  Non-Ponscripter
games may be considered essentially unsupported, and fixing bugs in
them will be a very low priority indeed.

To put it another way, consider what you want:

Q. Do you just want to play games that are specifically designed
  for Ponscripter?

A. Use Ponscripter.

Q. Are you are a user or developer who wants a portable game engine
  that works well with both Japanese and English games, and that
  strives to implement an NScripter-compatible system conforming to
  all the games and technical documentation out there?

A. Avoid Ponscripter like the plague and stick with ONScripter, or
  ONScripter-En if you want better English support.

Q. Are you an adventurous user who wants to experiment with an
  unstable system that might in some circumstances be able to enhance
  your gaming experience, or might break it in unexpected ways?

A. Feel free to try Ponscripter on NScripter/ONScripter games.  But
  back up your saved games first, and don't be at all surprised if it
  doesn't work at all.

Q. Are you a translator or developer who wants pretty Western text on
  Windows, MacOS X, and X11, and is willing to work to get it?

A. Porting an existing game to Ponscripter _might_ be easier than
  rewriting from scratch in Ren'Py.


--- A DIRE WARNING

Ponscripter deliberately breaks compatibility with ONScripter.  For
example, it is sometimes able to read ONScripter saved games, but
ONScripter will almost never be able to read Ponscripter saved games.

If you use this program with games that were not designed for it, you
do so at your own risk.

Also, do NOT bother Ogapee with any bugs or problems you encounter.
This is a heavily modified fork.  I have fiddled around with the
source code to the extent that many critical parts have been changed
beyond all recognition.  It is unlikely that any bugs you find are
anything to do with Ogapee.


--- COMPATIBILITY

The standard Ponscripter build requires a generally-POSIX-compatible
build environment with GNU make -- on Windows this means MinGW + MSYS
-- and is only extensively tested using the GNU compiler suite, though
on Linux at least it should also build with the Intel compiler.

Most of my testing is carried out on the following platforms:

* Ubuntu 8.10     x86_64 (primary development platform)
* Ubuntu 8.10     i386   (low-spec test platform)
* MacOS X 10.4    i386   (built as universal binary)

Note that I no longer regularly build or test on any version of
Microsoft Windows.  The Win32 binaries I provide are normally
cross-compiled on a Linux host.

I have tried to keep the code portable.  It has at various times
worked on most BSDs and on Solaris 10.  However, these are not tested
regularly.

=== OS X ISSUES

On OS X 10.4+, you will need to add a boolean key
CGDisableCoalescedUpdates (with value "Yes") to your bundle's
Info.plist in order for mouse clicks to cause a full page to display.
This workaround will hopefully only be temporary.

=== LINUX ISSUES

The linking stage of the build sometimes fails with unresolved
symbols.  I believe this is SDL's fault -- sdl-config often fails to
include libraries that SDL is actually depending on.  You'll have to
tweak things yourself.


--- ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Ponscripter is built primarily on Ogapee's work, without which there
would be nothing here.

The version of ONScripter taken as a base also includes notable
contributions from Chendo (original English support) and insani
(further enhancements).  I have not attempted to quantify how much of
their work remains in this version; even if much of it has been
replaced, they still deserve recognition for bringing English support
to the NScripter world in the first place.

The following people (in alphabetical order) have contributed 
noteworthy patches and bug reports that have enhanced Ponscripter:

  Agilis
  Mion of Sonozaki Futago-tachi
  Roine Gustafsson
  Roto
  Starchanchan

Apologies to anyone I've missed -- please let me know so I can set the
record straight!


--- LICENSING

ONScripter is copyright © 2001-2007 Ogapee.  The Ponscripter fork is
copyright © 2006-2009 Haeleth.

Ponscripter is licensed under the GNU General Public License, version
2 or (at your option) any later version.  See COPYING for details.
